# **Healthcare Data Analysis with PostgreSQL**

Welcome to the Healthcare Data Analysis project! This repository showcases PostgreSQL queries designed to analyze complex healthcare datasets generated by Synthea, a synthetic patient generation tool. This project aims to demonstrate skills in querying and extracting insights from healthcare data, focusing on various patient encounter types such as inpatient, outpatient, ambulatory, and emergency.

## **Project Overview**

Healthcare data analysis is critical for improving patient outcomes and optimizing healthcare operations. However, real-world healthcare data often comes with privacy concerns and limited availability. Synthea provides a valuable solution by generating realistic synthetic patient data that mimics real-world scenarios without compromising privacy.

## **Key Features**

- **Data Source:** Synthetic patient data generated by [Synthea](https://github.com/synthetichealth/synthea)
- **Focus Areas:**
  - Patient encounters across different admission types
  - ICD-10-CM diagnosis codes

- **Tools:** PostgreSQL for querying and analysis

## **Repository Contents**

- queries/: Contains PostgreSQL query files for various analysis tasks
- data/: Sample data files generated by Synthea
- notebooks/: Jupyter notebooks for interactive analysis

## **Future Work**

This is a living project, and new queries and analyses will be added continuously. Stay tuned for updates!

## **Getting Started**

To explore the queries and analyses, clone the repository and run the SQL scripts using PostgreSQL.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ChibuikeOnuba/SQL-on-Healthcare-Data-.git
```

**Set up PostgreSQL:**

- Install PostgreSQL
- Create a database and load the Synthea-generated data

**Run the Queries:**

- Explore the queries/ directory and run the SQL files in your PostgreSQL environment

## **Contribution**
Contributions are welcome! Feel free to fork the repository, submit issues, and create pull requests. Let's collaborate to enhance this project and drive better healthcare outcomes through data analysis.

## **Contact**
For questions, suggestions, or collaboration opportunities, please reach out via [LinkedIn.](https://www.linkedin.com/in/chibuikeonuba/)
